# Synthetic Data

Synthetic data is information that is artificially generated. This type of data is increasing in popularity.
- Synthetic data is computer generated and derives from existing data sets or from algorithms and models to replicate the properties and characteristics of real world data.

## Why do we need it?

The real data is either:
- Hard to come by;
- Sensitive confidential information that we can't readily get acces to.

Examples:
- Finance: financial records;
- Medical: medical histories.

Advantages:
- Cheap;
- Easy to produce;
- Perfectly labeled data;
- Avoid real world bias.
So: domain-specific, well labeled, high volume data at a reasonable cost.

Challenges:
- It can't replicate unanticipated events that may occur in real life

AI and ML starve for data and a model can be trained on plentiful volumes of well labeled sythetic data. By 2025, 70% less real data will be feed to the AI pipeline.

An example of use of it is that autonomous vehicles can test drive scenarios on road layouts that don't actually exist.

## Generating synthetic data

In a nutshell:
- Define the type of data you require;
- Identify the data sources needed;
- Generate the data according to your specifications;

The simplest approach is to use some existing datasets an the manipulate (add some noise, transform data, etc)that to create new examples

## Sources

[What is Synthetic Data? No, It's Not "Fake" Data](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HIusawrGBN4)